This one is challenging if you've
never seen a request animation frame.
So, if nothing else, it's a good example
of how you'd move something smoothly
into the dom which is something you would
probably have to do as a UI engineer.
So let's start with this function.
And we'll call it move elements.
And it takes the duration.
Takes the distance, and
it takes an element.
Okay, in this one we're not returning
anything necessarily because that's
not the point of this function.
Everything we do is
going to update the dom.
It's gonna update the element itself.
So we don't actually
have to return anything.
But in this case,
I wanna use request animation to call
the element,
find out where that element is, and
then move it incrementally based on
the duration that I wanna move over.
So the first thing I'm gonna do is I'm
gonna call request animation frame.
Which again, is a function that
is available on the window.
So it's there, if you go in your console
and type request animation frame,
it'll pop right up.
And I wanna start off by moving.
I wanna call this function.
I'm gonna call this function in and
we'll call it, let's get creative here,
we'll call it move.
And this is my workhorse,
this is where all the logic is gonna be.
requestAnimationFrame is just a callback,
if you will, or
move is technically a callback.
So requestAnimationFrame,
we're gonna call move on this.
So this will invoke this
function the first time around.
And what I wanna do is because I'm
moving something over a duration,
we'll say const.
We'll get the start time
equals performance.now.
You can also do new date.
It doesn't really matter.
I like performance.now cuz
it's pretty short in syntax.
That's gonna give me the time
that this animation started.
When requestAnimationFrame
calls a function,
it also passes in
a high-resolution DOM timestamp.
That is the actual name of the thing,
wait.
I can see people don't believe me.
Let's see, high-resolution timestamp.
See it's a real thing,
Dom High Res Time Stamp.
I don't know,
there's some skeptics out there, I know.
But, we know that it's
gonna be somewhere along
the lines of performance unknown in terms
of accuracy and in terms of moving.
Because requestAnimationFrame is almost
always used to animate something.
So I'm gonna say Timestamp,
we'll call it current time.
Okay, what's the next way
I think of this problem?
Well, requestAnimationFrame
is gonna call move one time.
And then that's it.
So we need requestAnimationFrame
to call move again.
So it's gonna keep referencing
itself until some condition is met.
So I wanna wrap this in an if statement
because we don't want it to continually
call over and over and over again.
We'll say if something,
we'll come back to that.
All right.
So now we have an animation loop of sorts.
It's not doing anything, but
it will call itself over and over and
over again to move in elements.
What do we want to do next?
We want to actually
move the element right.
And how would we do that in JavaScript?
We can say elements.style.
And we're gonna run a transform equals,
we're gonna wanna translate x.
And we're gonna wanna
move it some distance.
So, we don't actually know the distance
yet, so I'll leave that blank.
And that's gonna be in pixels.
This sounding familiar to anybody?
You've done it,
you've probably done it in CSS.
Doing it in JavaScript is very similar,
it's just different names of things.
Now you're troopers,
you're all hanging in there.
All right, this is where the math comes
in and it's not pleasant, I'm kidding.
It's just a way of how you think about it.
So given a duration, distance, and
time, how do we calculate out,
what's the rough formula to figure
out how much we should move per loop?
Well let's start with
let's start with elapsed.
Let's figure out how
much time has passed and
then we can use that to calculate
the distance that we need.
Okay.
Pretty follow so far to get the elapsed
time we take, what time is it now?
What time did we start?
We started at 4 o'clock and
it's now 4:05, five minutes have elapsed.
That's what elapsed time is gonna give us,
okay.
So to get the progress,
this is were the mathy part comes in.
Hm.
We can say how much time has
elapsed over the total duration.
So what's the ratio of how much time
has been spent versus how much time we
want to spend.
That gives us the progress.
Good so far?
This is why, if you got to
figure out the animation loop,
I'd say you're doing pretty well so far.
The mathy part is where
it gets a little tricky.
And honestly, this is where I got
flustered because I just got stuck and
I couldn't figure out the math part.
I just conceptually couldn't do it.
That's okay.
It's going to happen.
I think if you demonstrate a good effort,
most interviewers will be like okay.
They didn't get quite the formula but
if they had a real coding they
would probably figure this out.
Like you can figure out the distance and
the stuff like that.
So next thing we want to figure out is,
we want to figure out what goes in here.
How much should we move
it on every single loop?
So I'll call that amounts to move.
And so for that we can say,
we'll figure out.
We have now the progress is essentially
a ratio of how much has elapsed.
So if we multiply that ratio times
the distance that we want to move.
we can get, Yeah.
The math is tricky conceptually.
So it helps to say, all right,
we gotta last, five minutes have elapsed.
I'm just using minutes cuz it's easier.
Five seconds have elapsed.
So we get the ratio of how much has
elapsed versus how much should elapse.
So 5 seconds over, we'll say,
500 milliseconds, what is that?
That's 1%, 10%, okay, wait,
is that 10%, yes, okay.
Don't judge me.
500 [LAUGH], 5 over 500.
All right, so it's 1%.
So at this point I want 1% of the distance
because that's how much should be moving.
And then that's the amount
to move in pixels.
Okay, so it's all about changing your
thinking in this particular scenario.
I didn't, and
I got hung up on the math and it got me.
So, we still need to exit at
some point because if we don't
cross that many streams,
we can keep going over and
over and over to the keep moving and
moving and moving.
So I can say if the amount to move is
less than the distance that we're actually
supposed to move, then call it again.
And once that amountToMove has gone over,
it's greater than the distance, then we
don't call it anymore, and we're done.
And that's how to move an element
using requestAnimationFrame.
And when you do it, it's gonna be very
smooth, it's gonna be like [SOUND] and
then it's gonna stop.
Now if you're thinking,
how do I get it to move quickly?
And then I can move it quickly,
which would be like easing
some sort of easing function
that gives move quickly and
then slow down at the end or
start slow and move really quick.
Which, I wouldn't necessarily ask
you to in a technical interview, but
that's because it's more math heavy,
we would change how we calculate
this formula for the amount to move.
All right, all right.
Home stretch, we're almost there.
Nice job, if you solved this one,
really good, this one's a little tricky.
But the main part I want you to take
away is requestAnimationFrame, for
doing any sort of movement.
Someone says, hey,
how do you animate this thing?
Just say, requestAnimationFrame.
Could you do this in a for-loop,
absolutely.
Will it be smooth, no.
That's always the trick,
movement, requestAnimationFrame.